# Weekly Question

In two to three paragraphs of prose (i.e. sentences, not bullet lists) using APA style citations if needed, summarize and interact with the content that was covered in the class session this week. In your summary, you should highlight the major topics, theories, practices, and knowledge that were covered. Your summary should also interact with the material through personal observations, reflections, and applications to the field of study. In particular, highlight what surprised, enlightened, or otherwise engaged you. Make sure to include at least one thing that you’re still confused about. In other words, you should think and write critically not just about what was presented but also what you have learned through the session. You must ask at least one question. If you don't have questions about the material, ask me anything related to computer science, the industry, etc.

> This week we learned about solving problems using recursion and the main steps that involved in recursive implementations: base case, recurrence relation, and combination strategy. We practiced this using 2 straightforward string comparison algorithms and 1 trickier string generation problem in the homework. For the string comparison problems I found the base case, recurrence relation, and combination to be much easier to reason about and was able to solve the problem using a recursive implementation on the first pass. The string generation problem was trickier because I was not initially sure how to solve the problem iteratively, let alone identifying the recurrence relation and combination strategy. For this problem I dug into and did solve the problem using iteration first, got passing tests and then was able to identify and implement the recursive implementation.
Furthermore, we worked out how to implement method calls in our virtual machine parsing engine. I found writing the test for the recursive function to be a nice way to reinforce writing a recursive function as it was in an assembly-esque format. Overall, I feel like writing recursive functions as its place but I struggled to know when it would be useful in most everyday work.
So my question for you is when was the last time you found a serious benefit in utilizing a recursive algorithm to solve a problem at work? 
